# School_District_Analysis

A comparison of the school data before and after 9th grade scores from Thomas High School were nulled shows its impacts to several district and rating categories. 
The district summary was not affected in budgeting and student count, however the math and reading scores showed an average math score change of 0.1% and a change of 1% for the percentage of passing for reading and math and ultimately the overall percentage of passing students.

School summary data was impacted the most in the placing where Thomas High School is found. With the math and readinwg scores replaced, the average math scores and reading scores changed, dropping the overall percentage of students passing both reading and math to 65.1% from the 91% previously achieved. Due to this change, Thomas High School went from the second high school out of 15 district schools for having the highest overall percentage of students passing math and reading testing to being number 8 out of 15. 

This effect is further seen into the math and reading scores by grade, wherein 9th grade students were the second highest in the district in math scores by grade at 83.6% and where this value is since absent. Similarly, this is seen in reading scores by grade where Thomas High School was third highest in 9th graders scores in the district and where this value is since absent. 

More than affecting average scores by grade and slightly impacting district summaries, the effects can be seen shifting in school spending among different schools as well when the data is absent. The stark effect is seen in scores by spending where the percentage of math passing students changes from 73% to 67% percent, but this change furthermore supports the trend the data already displays. As the spending ranges increase, the percentage of math and reading percentages decrease with some variation. This observation can be attributed to the spending increase being more affluent in sports and recreational programs rather than directly fueled into math and reading improvement programs. 

This observation is more evident when taking into account the cleaned data in the column of "percentage overall passing" and further iterates the statement that the data orients the view that increased spending is equivalent to decreased overall percentage of passing. 
In comparing district high schools by size and taking into account the change in data from Thomas High School's 9th grade, there is a trend displayed in the school performances in relation to size. In both the amended and raw data analyzed it shows that there is a decrease in overall percentage as the school sizes increase. In changing the data from Thomas High School's 9th grade class, we change the percentage of performance of reading and math from 94% and 97% to 88% and 91%, respectively. 

Finally, the score by type data frame displays the increase in percentage passing of math and reading from the initial data and amended data. Percent passing math increases from 90% to 94% and reading percentage increases from 93% to 97%. There is negligible change in the average scores which indicates that like the district summary data, the absence of grades from Thomas High School is minimal. What is not minimal is the percentage increase in the charter vs. district schools which indicates that the absence of data boosted the percentage of charter schools. Since Thomas High School is a charter, it pronounces the trends already seen in comparison even more. 
